a little start on some higher level docs (#7)
open-chat-labs/open-chat-bots: README.md

SDKs for building Bots for OpenChat with examples

## What kind of bots can I build?

There are broadly three different categories of bot that OpenChat currently supports.

- **Command bots** which accept a command from an OpenChat user from within the OpenChat interface.

> - **Integration bots** which accept a command from an external system usins an API key.

Reviewer: using

- **Autonomous bots** which generate their own commands and interact with the OpenChat backend autonomously.

There is some overlap in these capabilities and it is quite possible to create a single bot which acts in all three different ways. We will provide examples of all the different approaches and when you might use each type of bot. Let's discuss these bot types and how they work in more detail.

### Command bots

Like all bots, a command bot is a server component (which may be an IC canister or any other kind of off-chain server) which will interact with the OpenChat backend in order to provide its functions. A command bot's function is described by the set of commands that an OpenChat user can trigger from within OpenChat to interact with it.

The commands that are supported must be described in accordance with the bot definition schema which is described [here](./schema/README.md).

> Your job is to provide an instance of this definition schema and a server which supports its commands. When defining your schema, pay close attention to the OpenChat permissions that each command will require. Your commands will actively prevented from taking any actions requiring permission that the bot did not specify that it would need.

Reviewer: Your commands will be actively...

Reviewer: requiring permissions

There are broadly three different categories of bot that OpenChat currently supports.

- **Command bots** which accept a command from an OpenChat user from within the OpenChat interface.
- **Integration bots** which accept a command from an external system usins an API key.
- **Autonomous bots** which generate their own commands and interact with the OpenChat backend autonomously.

There is some overlap in these capabilities and it is quite possible to create a single bot which acts in all three different ways. We will provide examples of all the different approaches and when you might use each type of bot. Let's discuss these bot types and how they work in more detail.

### Command bots

Like all bots, a command bot is a server component (which may be an IC canister or any other kind of off-chain server) which will interact with the OpenChat backend in order to provide its functions. A command bot's function is described by the set of commands that an OpenChat user can trigger from within OpenChat to interact with it.

The commands that are supported must be described in accordance with the bot definition schema which is described [here](./schema/README.md).

> Your job is to provide an instance of this definition schema and a server which supports its commands. When defining your schema, pay close attention to the OpenChat permissions that each command will require. Your commands will actively prevented from taking any actions requiring permission that the bot did not specify that it would need.

Reviewer 2: > Your commands will actively prevented from taking any actions

"Your commands will _be_ actively prevented from taking any actions..."? 🤔

To test your bot, we recommend that you start by running OpenChat locally. Please refer to the [OpenChat readme](https://github.com/open-chat-labs/open-chat/blob/master/README.md) for help with this. When you have a test bot running and an instance of OpenChat running locally you are ready to try to register your bot using the built-in `/register_bot` command (which is only available in developer mode).

#### Registering the bot

> This `/register_bot` command will load a modal to allow you to enter the details of your bot. Importantly this included the endpoint that OpenChat should use to communicate with your bot. When you enter this endpoint, we will then attempt to load and validate your bot's definition schema. Take the time to browse through the parsed definition - this is how OpenChat understands your bot's behaviour and how it will control the user's interactions with your bot. When you are happy, you can register the bot. Note that in the live environment, your bot can only be registered via a special proposal type within the OpenChat proposals channel. This is to ensure that each bot get a certain level of scrutiny and that the DAO agrees in principal that it is a useful addition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `/register_bot` command will load a modal to allow you to enter the details of your bot. Importantly this includes the endpoint that OpenChat should use to communicate with your bot. When you provide this endpoint, we will then attempt to load and validate your bot's definition schema. Take the time to browse through the parsed definition - this is how OpenChat understands your bot's behaviour and how it will control the user's interactions with your bot. When you are happy, you can register the bot. Note that in the live environment, your bot can only be registered via a special proposal type within the OpenChat proposals channel. This is to ensure that each bot get a certain level of scrutiny and that the DAO agrees in principal that it is a useful addition.
```

#### Installing the bot

> Once a bot is registered with OpenChat it becomes available to be added to any community or group by the owner(s) of that community or group. This is done via the members panel. When you choose to add a bot to a community or a group you will be presented with a summary of what commands the bot provides and what permissions it is asking for. You, as an owner of the community or group can choose which permissions you are prepared to actually _grant_ to the bot and this may restrict the commands which will be ultimately availble in this context.

Reviewer 2: If the owner of a group decides to provide some permissions, I suppose we can tell which commands can then be executed, and which cannot? I suppose the question is if the users can use a subset of a bots commands if the owner does not provide all the requested permissions?

Author: Yes that's correct. If the owner denies a certain permission, then any command that requires that permission will not be available.

Author: I have clarified that point a bit.

Reviewer 2: Do the users see some of the commands as "grayed out" if they don't have permissions to run, or not at all?

Author: in the command selector, they won't see them at all. In the summary you can see by clicking on the bot avatar you would see the full list of commands with some greyed out if not available.
